.TH LCCCTL 1 "2026-04-08" "kuangshi16pro-lcc" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
lccctl \- D-Bus client for the Kuangshi16Pro Linux Control Center daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lccctl
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lccctl
is the operator-facing command line client for
.BR lccd (8).
It reads state and capabilities over D-Bus and sends mutating requests through
the daemon instead of writing hardware state directly.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B state
Print the current daemon state as JSON.
.TP
.B status
Alias for
.BR state .
.TP
.B capabilities
Print the capability model as JSON.
.TP
.B observe
Read grouped state for one of
.BR mode ,
.BR power ,
.BR fan ,
.BR thermal ,
or
.BR all .
.TP
.B mode set MODE
Request a new performance mode such as
.BR office ,
.BR turbo ,
or
.BR custom .
.TP
.B power set
Apply power-limit changes using explicit numeric flags or a config file.
.TP
.B fan apply
Apply a named fan preset or a config-driven fan table.
.TP
.B fan boost on|off
Toggle the OEM fan-boost bit through the daemon.
.TP
.B profile apply
Apply a staged profile from a config file.
.TP
.B developer raw wmbc
Send a low-level traced WMBC packet on the developer path.
This bypasses the daemon and is intended only for diagnostics.
.SH BUS SELECTION
.TP
.B --system-bus
Use the system bus. This is the default.
.TP
.B --user-bus
Use the user bus for development.
.SH OTHER OPTIONS
.TP
.B --plan
Print the staged local apply plan instead of calling
.BR lccd .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/lccctl
Installed CLI entrypoint.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/lccd.service
Systemd unit that owns the deployed daemon.
.SH NOTES
System-bus mutating commands are authorized through polkit.
On a graphical desktop this normally triggers an authentication prompt.
On a text console, start
.B pkttyagent
or use the development-only
.B --user-bus
path.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B lccctl capabilities
Show the detected capability model.
.TP
.B lccctl state
Read current daemon state over the system bus.
.TP
.B lccctl mode set turbo
Request the turbo profile through the daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lccd (8),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR busctl (1)
