.TH LCCD 8 "2026-04-08" "kuangshi16pro-lcc" "System Manager's Manual"
.SH NAME
lccd \- system D-Bus daemon for the Kuangshi16Pro Linux Control Center
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lccd
.RB [ --user ]
.RB [ --system ]
.RB [ --capabilities
.IR path ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B lccd
is the privileged daemon that exposes the stable
.B io.github.semcosm.Lcc1
service on D-Bus.
It owns backend selection, transaction execution, and authorization of
mutating operations through polkit on the system bus.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --system
Connect to the system bus. This is the default.
.TP
.B --user
Connect to the user bus for development.
.TP
.BI --capabilities " PATH"
Override the capabilities JSON path used by the daemon.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B LCC_BACKEND
Force a backend selection of
.BR standard ,
.BR amw0 ,
or
.BR mock .
.TP
.B LCC_STANDARD_ROOT
Override the sysfs root used by the standard backend.
.TP
.B LCC_AMW0_CALL_NODE
Override the
.I acpi_call
node path used by the AMW0 backend.
.TP
.B LCC_AMW0_ECRR_PATH
Override the detected AML ECRR path for AMW0 reads.
.TP
.B LCC_AMW0_DRY_RUN
Keep AMW0 write operations in dry-run mode.
.TP
.B LCC_AMW0_TRACE_FILE
Append internal AMW0 transport trace output to a file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/lib/kuangshi16pro-lcc/lccd
Installed daemon binary.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/lccd.service
Systemd unit used for the deployed service.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dbus-1/system-services/io.github.semcosm.Lcc1.service
D-Bus activation metadata.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dbus-1/system.d/io.github.semcosm.Lcc1.conf
System bus policy for the stable service surface.
.TP
.I /usr/share/polkit-1/actions/io.github.semcosm.Lcc1.policy
Polkit action definitions for mutating methods.
.SH OPERATING MODEL
The daemon prefers the standard Linux backend for read-state operations when
available, and falls back to AMW0 for write paths that are not exposed through
standard Linux interfaces on this hardware family.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B systemctl start lccd.service
Start the packaged system service.
.TP
.B journalctl -u lccd.service -b
Inspect boot-local daemon logs.
.TP
.B lccctl state
Query the daemon over D-Bus.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR lccctl (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR journalctl (1),
.BR busctl (1)
